h1. Request Logging with MongoDB

h1. Overview

* A consolidated request log for all app servers
* Every request becomes a single document in MongoDB
* Logging is done from a Rack middleware
* The solution is packages up in the request_log RubyGem

h1. MongoDB Advantages

* Asynchronous fast inserts yield a small overhead (a couple of ms)
* Capped collections for log rolling
* Flexible schema
* Good query capabilities

h1. A Basic Request Document

<pre>
method: "GET"
path: "/"
ip: "10.218.1.177"
time: 2010-10-28 21:43:38 UTC
params: {"hello_world"=>"1"}
status: 200
runtime: 0.000303
</pre>

h1. A Request Document with Custom Fields

<pre>
method: "GET"
path: "/v1/brands/mama-se/products"
status: 200
time: 2010-12-11 15:19:56 UTC
runtime: 0.018139
ip: "10.244.167.17"
params: {"brand_id"=>"mama-se", "x_apple_receipt"=>"[FILTERED]"}
controller: "v1/products"
action: "index"
user_agent: "Mama+ 1.51 (iPad; iPhone OS 4.2; sv_SE; mama-se; 1.51; 0d870bfad89889fb924ab979e43c17c743db5cf0)"
app_version_market: "1.51"
app_type: "iPad"
app_os: "iPhone OS 4.2"
app_locale: "sv_SE"
brand_id: "mama-se"
app_version: "1.51"
device_id: "0d870bfad89889fb924ab979e43c17c743db5cf0"
</pre>

h1. Gem Dependencies

<pre>
  gem 'mongo', '~> version known to work'
  gem 'bson_ext', '~> version known to work'
  gem 'request_log', '~> version known to work'
</pre>

h1. Connecting to MongoDB

<pre>
if ENV['MONGOHQ_URL']
  require 'uri'
  require 'mongo'      
  uri = URI.parse(ENV['MONGOHQ_URL'])
  connection = Mongo::Connection.from_uri(uri.to_s)
  RequestLog::Db.mongo_db = connection.db(uri.path.gsub(/^\//, ''))
end
</pre>	

h1. Tailing the Log

<pre>
rake request_log:tail
</pre>

h1. Log Query: Time and Status

<pre>
rake request_log:print
	from = "2010-10-28 17:06:08"
	to = "2010-10-28 17:06:10"
	conditions = 'status: 200'
</pre>  

h1. Log Query: Path Regexp

:inlinecode
"path" => /promo/
:endinlinecode

h1. Log Query: Runtime

:inlinecode
"runtime" => {"$gt" => 0.5}
:endinlinecode

h1. Log Query: Params (Embedded Data)

:inlinecode
"params.currency" => "USD"
:endinlinecode

h1. Resources

* "Request Log RubyGem":http://github.com/peter/request_log
* "MongoDB is Fantastic for Logging":http://blog.mongodb.org/post/172254834/mongodb-is-fantastic-for-logging
* "Graylog2":http://www.graylog2.org
* "Loggly":http://www.loggly.com
* "Splunk":http://www.splunk.com
